Macintosh Tk

by Ray Johnson
Sun Microsystems Laboratories
rjohnson@eng.sun.com


1. Introduction
---------------

This is the README file for the Macintosh version of the Tk
extension for the Tcl scripting language.  The file consists of
information specific to the Macintosh version of Tcl and Tk.  For more
general information please read the README file in the main Tk
directory.

2. The Distribution
-------------------

Macintosh Tk is distributed in two different forms.  This 
should make it easier to only download what you need.  The 
packages are as follows:

mactk4.1a2.sea.hqx

    This distribution is a "binary" only release.  It contains an
    installer program that will install a 68k, PowerPC, or Fat
    version of the "Wish" application.  In addition, in installs
    the Tcl & Tk libraries in the Extensions folder inside your
    System Folder.  (These are just text files - no inits are
    installed.)

mactcltk-full-4.1a2.sea.hqx

    This release contains the full release of Tcl and Tk for the
    Macintosh plus the GUSI and More Files packages which both
    Macintosh Tcl and Tk rely on.

mactk-source-4.1a2.sea.hqx

    This release contains the complete source to Tk for the Macintosh
    In addition, Metrowerks CodeWarrior libraries and project files
    are included.  However, you must already have the More Files and
    GUSI packages to compile this code.

3. Documentation
----------------

Two books are currently available for Tcl.  Both provide a good
introduction to the language.  It is a good way to get started
if you havn't used the language before:

    Title:			Tcl and the Tk Toolkit
    Author:			John K. Ousterhout
    Publisher:			Addison-Wesley
    ISBN:			0-201-63337-X

    Title:			Practical Programming in Tcl and Tk
    Author:			Brent Welch
    Publisher:			Prentice Hall
    ISBN:			0-13-182007-9

The "doc" subdirectory contains reference in documentation in
in the "man" format found on most UNIX machines.  Unfortunantly,
there is not a suitable way to view these pages on the Macintosh.  
A version suitable for viewing on the Macintosh has yet to be
developed.  We are working are having better documentation for
the Macintosh platform in the future.  However, if you have WWW 
access you may access the Man pages at the following URL:

	http://www.smli.com/research/tcl/man/

Other documentation and sample Tcl scripts can be found at
the Tcl ftp site: 

	ftp://ftp.aud.alcatel.com/tcl/

The internet news group comp.lang.tcl is also a valuable
source of information about Tcl.  A mailing list is also
available (see below).

4. Compiling Tcl
----------------

In order to compile Macintosh Tcl you must have the 
following items:

	CodeWarrior 1.2.2
	Mac Tcl 7.5 (source)
	CWGUSI 1.6.0
	More Files 1.3.1

The project  files included with the Mac Tcl source should work 
fine.  The only thing you may need to update are the access paths.

5. Test suite
-------------

The Macintosh version of Tk does not pass many of the tests in the
test suite.  This is primarily due to dependencies in the test suite
on the size of particular X fonts, and other X related features.  We
will be working to develop a more general test suite for Tk under the
Macintosh, but for now, you will not be able to pass many of the
tests.


6. Macintosh Tcl Mailing List
-----------------------------

A Mailing List has been set up to discuss Macintosh related Tcl & Tk
issues including (but not limited to) MacTcl & the Tk port.  In order
to use this Mailing List you must have access to the internet.  If you
have access to the WWW the home page for this mailing list is located
at the following URL:

	http://www.smli.com/research/tcl/lists/mactcl-list.html

The home page contains information about the list and an HTML archive
of all the past messages on the list.  To subscribe send a message to:
	
	listserv@aic.lockheed.com
	
In the body of the message (the subject will be ignored) put:
	
	subscribe mactcl Joe Blow
	
Replacing Joe Blow with your real name, of course.  If you would just
like to receive more information about the list without subscribing
but the line:

	information mactcl
	
in the body instead.



If you have comments or Bug reports send them to:
Ray Johnson
rjohnson@eng.sun.com
